and reared in... Tell me your name, four names
first. Charles L. Bowie, the old Y.D.
Bowie. Born and reared in Grandview, Texas, a
small agricultural community south of Ford.
Completed a high school education there in 1939.
and attended Hillsborough Junior College one
year. You know, Matt, were you active in 4-H, etc.?
Active in vocational agriculture, which there
wasn't a 4-H in that community, but vocational ag
school gave you then agricultural projects, or
animal projects, and sports, athletics.
Well, after going one year to Hillsborough Junior
College, I Attended two years at North Texas
Agricultural College in Arlington. A major in
general agriculture and had a little husband,
Rick. Now, they were under A&M affiliation at that
time? Yeah, that was a branch of Texas A&M at that
time. And before we became UTA, we became UTA after
I came here. Then transferred to Texas A&M. Excuse
me, I remember Tom Harrington saying that was one
of the biggest mistakes we ever made, letting that
go. Oh, I can believe that. And he would have moved
the system office. He said, that really shocked
me. This was 20 years ago, you know. Well, it went to
Dallas, you know. They've got a real university up
there now. Yeah. Excuse me. They were smaller
then. Of course, at that time, they had a good ROTC,
which you could get an advanced contract. You
could make the basic there, you could get an
advanced contract. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. So I
transferred there. I came here after completing
two years there. Came to Texas A&M in 1942.
Graduated in 1945 in veterinary medicine. I guess
the thing that influenced me most to pursue a
career in veterinary medicine, we operated a
dairy. And in the TB eradication program, Dr. Leon
Cloud, Leon G. Cloud, came down and tested the
herd. He was driving a new black Hudson Terraplane
coupe with a portable radio. I can still see that
case. Battery-operated portable radio. This was
about 1936, I guess. I thought, and he wore, he had a
little old cap, as I remember, white cap in the
building, like he's a sports car guy. I thought,
boy, that must be alive. For a rural kiddo, that's
got to be the greatest. It's amazing how little
things like that influence you all. everybody
somewhere along the way. Also Dr. Allman I met
quite early and Dr. Burns in Cleveland by doing the
veterinary practice for us. I can remember having
gone forward Dr. Allman had been in practice in
Itasca, Texas and there was a veterinarian I don't
call his name at the moment he died and his wife was
still operating the hospital there on South Main
in Fort Worth I believe it was him and the mercy cat
and dog, I suppose. But anyway, I went up to pick up
some cowpox salve that Dr. Allman mixed up in
medication. I must have been about 16 then. Drove
the car up there by myself and got that and had a big
day. Again, a country boy in town. But Dr. Allman,
Dr. Burns, I remember Dr. Burns, his influence on
my idea of maintaining a professional image. He
officed in the back of a drug store west side of the
square in Cleaver. And he had a coat rack in there
and he always had a suit on and a tie. And he'd hang
his coat back, coat on the rack, sit in a swivel
chair and visit with the clients and talk to them
about the name. But he never made a call without
putting that coat on, hot or cold, whatever. He
wore a suit all the time. He said they don't expect
you to slop the hogs and stretch barbed wire if you
wear a suit. He was an A&M graduate in animal
science, animal husbandry, but he was an Ohio
State graduate in veterinary medicine. He was
from Cuero. He was a cousin of Patton W. Burns, who
was head of Pharmacology College here. And he was
on the board of examiners when I took the exam for
the state board of licenses. Arthur Clayton. And
when you received your degree in 45, what did you
do? Did you go into practice? I had borrowed money,
federal money, to finish up on senior year. And I
went to work for the City of Houston Health Board. I
worked there two years until I got my bills paid.
Went back to the old hometown, which I don't always
highly advocate.
And went in to practice there and remained there
for 17 years until I came to the College of Under
Medicine. Now your hometown again was...
Grandview. Grandview, yeah. I had no intention of
going into academia at all. I was planning to do
something else, perhaps go with another
practitioner where we'd have a little free time.
It was pretty confining. And
I attended the TVMA meeting in San Antonio. and sat
down with Bill Romaine, Nick Callaham, Al Price,
their wives, and my wife and I. And they said they
were looking for somebody in the clinic, Dr.
Young, and he got signed on for a two-year stint in
Pakistan. And I said, no way I can handle that. I'm
just an old rural practitioner. I couldn't do
that. But I would love to be in an environment where
I have the... availability of consultation on
problem cases, better laboratory facilities,
and better diagnostic exposure. So as we'll come
down and see us, time passed, and Jim Denton, who is
now deceased, but Jim was a classmate and an
ambulatory clinician here, he and his wife drove
up one Sunday, came down to the hospital there, and
I was washing OB chains and dirty buckets by
myself. He talked to me a while and said, well just
come down and look at it. So sure, I came down and
they convinced me that I could work in the program
and pursue a master's degree.
Under those circumstances, it was a great
reluctance, I came down. What year was that? 1964.
I came in March of 1964. Okay, we'll come back to all
that in your practice in a minute. Elmo, how did you
get into this business? So forth. By osmosis, I
guess. I don't know. Is it Elmo? E-L-M-O. My first
name is Walter. Okay. My father's name was also
Walter, so I was called throughout my life by my
middle name, Elmo.
I was formed. born and raised in the Lower Rio
Grande Valley, a little community called Ed
Couch. Ed Couch? Ed Couch, E-D-C-O-U-C-H. One
word? Named after a Mr. Couch who owned the town
side of Ed Couch before it became a town. And of
course his first name was Ed, so they named the
community after him. My dad was involved in
farming a lot of the land that eventually became
the community of Edcouch. And during high school,
we had a young man that came in, a graduate of Texas
A&I, that was an ag teacher. And he started off with
a 4-H class, and then when I got into high school, I
was part of the vocational agriculture class. And
our livestock activity was most appealing to me in
that, more so than the farming aspects of
vocational agriculture. And I probably got to do
more than my share of castrations and deep
warnings and such as that by default. Oh yeah, I
said. The ag classes would go out to the different
farms and communities around kind of a dearth of
veterinarians around that area at the time. And so
ag class did an awful lot of castrations, and
caponizing, and dehorning, and vaccinating, and
all sort of activity of that nature. And I
thoroughly enjoyed it. And on part of the default
on many of the others in the class, well, I got to do
more than my share of it. And I think that that was
probably about as influential as any other one
thing. my deciding to be a veterinarian
my ag teacher at one time assigned the class the
responsibility of making the report to the class
on the attributes of a profession and at that point
in time i chose to talk on veterinary medicine as a
profession I also had an uncle that was a
veterinarian. He was not a graduate of a
veterinary college. He'd attended the Dallas
Veterinary School. And I think Rutherford was
instrumental in promoting and maintaining a lot
of that schooling. And when he was a licensed
veterinarian, as a result of the grandfather
clause and the practiced as a veterinarian at the
time for a number of years and was granted a license
under the grandfather clause. He really didn't
have a whole lot of influence on my decision to
become a veterinarian except that I thought that
if I had an uncle who was a veterinarian it might be
all right for me too, but I think my ag teacher and my
activities in agricultural class was probably
more instrumental in my decision.
So how'd you get to Texas A&M? Well, I guess. I guess
as a result of my making the talk on veterinary
medicine as a profession, I actually talked
myself into it and investigated the economics of
it and such as that.
I came to A&M then. I was a fish and well I graduated
from high school in 1941, came up here in September
of 41. Three days after I graduated from high
school, I hitchhiked to A&M to try to locate it,
find a job and came up here and visited with Mr.
Horsley in the employment office and course he
made no promises whatsoever. I was probably
doubting that I would ever show up as a student at
A&M, but I made the initial contact with him and
when I came back in September, I renewed
acquaintances with Mr. Horsley and he put my name
on the list and said, don't call me, I'll call you
when you have something. This was a matter of
hitchhiking, goes up here and back, which I
continued to do throughout the time I was in
school. I hitchhiked back and forth every time.
That's a pretty good hitchhiker. Four occasions.
Did you have to spend many nights out on the way?
Back and forth. Did you have to spend many nights
out on the way? I spent as long as over 24 hours. I
bet. hitchhiking up here, and I've done it in less
than eight hours, which is good times,
hitchhiking, coming by way of Austin and Round
Rock and Hearn and then back down to College
Station.
Made the acquaintance rather quickly of Dr.
Marsteller, who knew my uncle, But I don't really
think he admired my uncle extremely, my uncle not
being a graduate veterinarian, but a licensed
veterinarian. And I don't know whether this had a
role to play in his judging my uncle's quarter
horses down in a horse show in Mesquite, Texas. The
year before, my uncle had both the champion mare
and stallion. quarter horses, Palomino quarter
horses at the State Fair in Dallas, and just about
eight months later took him to a horse show over at
Mesquite. Dr. Marshfeller was the judge at that
show, and he didn't place. My uncle had claimed the
animosity that Dr. Marshfeller had for judging
his horses down, but None of this rubbed off on Dr.
Markenteller as far as his attitude toward me was
concerned. I had nothing but high regard and held
him in high esteem.
I struggled through my first year and failed
chemistry, so that put me one year behind
graduating. You don't pass chemistry, you don't
start physiology, so then starting my sophomore
year, I had a job working at the Shulman Theaters in
Bryan. This would go on three nights a week, would
go on for about one o'clock in the morning. The
changing marquee and such as that took extra time.
Well, the first grade report came out, and it was
obvious to me that I was in trouble, and it was also
obvious to Dr. Marsteller. He took a personal
interest in each and every individual student, I
believe. I don't think he treated me any
differently than anyone else. He called me into
his office and sat me down over there and said, Mr.
Crenshaw, it seems that you're having some
problems with your grades. Well, I don't know how
to describe Dr. Marsteller's voice, but it was
kind of a grunting dissertation and somewhat of a
nasal twang at the same time. I told him, yes, I
realize that, and he wanted to know if I had an
explanation for it, and of course I had an
explanation for it, working till 1 or 1.30 in the
morning, three nights a week, and going out,
living in the basement of one of the old, old homes
in Bryan at the time, and there was about six boys
living in the basement of that old home, and I'd go
home at 1.30 in the morning, and decide I was going
to study, and needless to say, about 10 to 15
minutes, and I'd be nodding and pointless to make
any further efforts. And I'd say, well, I'll get up
early in the morning and study. This never
happened. I'd be late catching a bus from Bryan to
campus to make it to class. So he persuaded me that
I'd better discontinue my work at the Shulman
Theater. So post haste, I resigned my position
there. imposed further upon Mr. Hartsby to find a
job on campus, which wound up being in the
Landscape Arts Department. Which was kind of a
deceiving thing, also.
He told me, you go over to that red building over
there next to the laundry, and says, I asked for a
certain individual. I don't recall his name now. I
said, you go into that building. I said, he'll find
a job for you. I had visions of grandeur on my way
over to this red building next to the laundry.
Landscape art. I envisioned myself working at a
table and designing flower beds and working with
this shrub and that tree and such and that. And I
walked into the red building next to the laundry,
and there was nothing in there but Grubbing holes,
shovels, axes, wheelbarrows. It suddenly hits
you, right? And then on Saturday afternoons, of
course, there were very few people working in the
landscape arts department. About three of us
showed up for work Saturday afternoon. This was
during the time that football was being played,
and I was an avid football fan even at that point in
time. I would be standing there washing pots, and
you could hear the screams coming from Kyle's
field. It was hard. It was pretty tough. I'd been
working for 35 cents an hour and missing a football
game. But one thing led to another, and I wound up
with a better job after that. And your grades
picked up? My grades picked up, needless to say. I
managed to stay in school, thanks to Dr.
Marsteller.
So that's about my transition from a farm boy to the
College of Veterinary Medicine. And you got your
degree when? In 46. February 46. And then what did
you do with that degree? Well, let's see. You had to
fill in on the Army Specialized Training Program
and enroll in veterinary medicine. Charlie and I
both were. participating in the Army Specialized
Training Program. That lasted for only one year,
and those of us that were not near enough
graduation were given reserve officer's
commission. Given the M.A.C., Medical
Administrative. The Medical Administrative
Corps, classified as second lieutenants, and
were permitted to finish veterinary school. Now
you technically never were under the G.I. Bill as
such. No. This was that special training program.
The G.I. Bill didn't come into being until after
World War II and quite some time after, wasn't it
Charlie? I don't think it was. I don't remember
either. I was thinking 47, 48. About 48, 49, one old
building. When the impact really hit. And they had
some of that at the air basement, some on campus.
The organized return of the bedroom was good on the
Hazelwood building. That's the thing you're
talking about, GI building. Yeah, right. Yeah,
Hazelwood building. I checked that day. I never
thought about it. I was thinking it was about 47, 48
at least. Yeah, probably so. Well, this thing was a
deal that you entered as a private when we went to
Fort Sam and then after spending a month over there
close on the railroad route, we were sent back
here. They had a Marine Corps and a Navy. Air Corps.
Air Corps. Medics, yeah. Specialized on
specialized training. Lived over in the new area.
Don't hate nothing at all. As a result of the Speed
Up program, going summers and all, they had three
graduating classes a year. In 46, we graduated
three classes. I called myself a member of the
advanced class in 46. I finished February the 2nd
of 46, and there was a graduating class in June and
one in August. four to six, retarded classes.
And at that time, graduation, well, I joined my
uncle and Dan Beckley, who had graduated about
three years before me. It was with my uncle in ,,
Texas. OK, so you went in practice with this uncle
that you had? Yeah, with my non-graduate but
licensed veterinarian uncle. Hillary Crenshaw.
At Garland? At Garland.
He had a booming large animal practice and just a
piddling bit of small animal practice, which we
conducted, the surgery we did, we did in a cheap
metal garage that backed the wagons or trailers or
whatever out of the garage and had a little surgery
table set up in there. That's where we did our small
animal practice. And he still had his Palomino
Quarter horses and they were fine animals that
provided me my introduction to artificial
insemination, I guess. It just thrilled him when
he had two mares come in at one time for breeding to
his stag. He'd breed one mare and he'd take a
gelatin capsule and go in and harvest a portion of
the semen that had been ejaculated in the vagina of
the mare and implant the and another mayor. That's
surprisingly good. Is that right? Was that being
done commonly, or is that something he picked up? I
don't know how commonly it was being done. I don't
remember he got the idea, but he was doing it quite
commonly. This old stallion was pretty popular,
and you were getting a lot of calls for service to
it. Ptoleminos were popular at that time, and
quarter horses were popular, gaining
popularity. Yeah, and artificial insemination
just coming along, because I had a dairy cow
heifer, and we used to get people up from LSU to come
inseminate the cow, because she was such a terror
anyway with the bull. But it was apparently kind of
a novel thing at the time. So you were in practice in
Garland, and you're still heavily large animal.
Heavily large animal. Right. And I really enjoyed
the large animal work. I really had very little
introduction to small animal. Back in school, we
had very little. That was the right next question.
Both of you, when you were here, was there any
emphasis at all on small animal or sort of
incidental? I would say no emphasis. What did you
say? It was just available whenever we came in. You
know, as students, there weren't any dogs. All
dogs were neutered three miles from the campus.
But there were students who could catch one
running free. That was an opportunity to spay or
cast or anything. If we were in my office, I'd show
you a book that was really our only textbook in
small animal, dogs and cats. And it's just about
that thick. And it's a well-worn book. I'm going to
get the time of that. I'll tell you before I leave.
Don't even forget it. Because that's good. And, of
course, now... Is that Brumley's? Yeah. Is that
Brumley's? Would you like me to go get that now
while you're making your note here on that? Okay.
All right. Yeah, because those kind of pieces of
information are pretty good to have. Because one
thing I know I picked up in the veterinary chapter,
medicine chapter I did at A&M, were the three or
four titles of books. And there just wasn't much,
you know, when Francis came in from the 30th
century. I came back... I came back in the summer.
We had a mid-summer conference, a mid-year
conference. We called it the June conference. We
met at the MSC on campus. And I remember buying a
poetry pathology book, Beasters. Oh, it was about
that thick. It was tremendous. The book that we had
was a bartered card. It was about this thick, about
in that big square, I think. And Banks, Dr. Banks,
used to laugh about, well, there were only five
diseases of poultry when we were in school. Yeah,
probably so. Yeah, now you've got everything in
the world. Root, collar, bubble foot. We really
got more in poultry than we did in small animals,
dogs and cats. I wouldn't be surprised, yeah,
commercial, because Folter would have been
heavily commercial-wise already. That's right.
It was a plot treatment deal. I've always, of
course I'm a book person anyway, but I've always
been intrigued by the textbook things. There was
one on the horse, somebody on the horse, it was a
classic. I went to the library, we had it in the
library, in fact, 1880 vintage thing, and
apparently it was still used in the 20th century.
Well, Keeping Livestock Healthy in 1942 was about
the biggest general book we had. Do you remember?
You wrote your representative who got that one.
Oh, yeah, yeah. Old E. Butler called me one day when
he was going to testify on Bruce Loveson for
Comedian Austin. I can't find my Keeping
Livestock Healthy book. I want to borrow yours.
Well, they put that out annually for many years.
Oh, yeah. I got one about four years ago. It had even
colored plates in it. Then they had one on the
diseases of the horse and the diseases of cattle.
Those were two broken down bodies after that 40
years. I used to have clients that would want me to
get them books on diseases of cattle. Always. And
I'd tell them about keeping livestock healthy.
That was a constant. And where's a good book I can
get them? I don't know. I had one that pestered me
about that. A young man, he was college educated,
kept pestering me about books. And I finally gave
him my book on the diseases of cattle, the Saunders
publication. And he took that thing home. He
brought it back in about a week, something like
that. He always smoked a cigar. And he walked into
that cigar in the mouth and said, keep that damn
thing. He said, everything in there sounds alike.
So how long were you in practice now at Garland?
Well, I practiced there for 10 months, and for some
reason Uncle Sam thought that as a result of my year
in the Army Specialized Training Program that I
still owed them some time as a veterinarian. So I
thought they were bluffing. They sent me an
opportunity to sign up as a... That's what they
were going in as at that time. And I declined. Then I
got a draft notice and time to report. So I
post-haste went into Dallas and made application
to enter as an officer in the veterinary corps.
That was close. And the day I was to report for my
physical for the draft, my commission came
through in the veterinary corps. So I
was being like C.K. Jones, who did time as a buck
private in Fort Sam Houston, Texas, and he can tell
you some wild stories about that. Of course, being
a Texas A&M graduate, he was well-versed in
treatment of equine diseases, horses and mules,
and they had quite a contingent of mules down there
in particular. And the veterinarians on duty at
Fort Brown were all from the northeast and they
didn't know anything about it. They'd bring a mule
into the clinic there and ask to see case. I guess
they called him private. I think he was first
class. Did he make first class? I don't know. I
haven't heard this story. Ask him. What's wrong
with this mule for $54 a month? I don't know what the
hell happened to that mule. Turn around and walk
off. You know how independent he was. It still is.
So how long were you in service now? Well, I was in
two years. Okay. And your station? Well, I spent
about... three months at Chicago, two months in
Chicago, I guess. And most of the people that went
in to Chicago went through their meat and dairy
hygiene school. I didn't have that opportunity.
They had officers at Fort Sill, Oklahoma that were
being mustered out and had a colonel there that I
was rather impatient to have some officers
underneath him, you know, do the paperwork and
running around the meat inspection and all that
sort of thing, so they cut me some orders to go to
Fort Sill instead of going to the meat and dairy
hygiene school. In some ways, a major in Chicago
lost my orders. and were later found on his desk and
had been there for just about five weeks. So I was
five weeks late getting to Fort Selle, Oklahoma,
just bumming around in the Quartermaster Corps
offices up there and such as that, reported to a
very irate colonel at Lawton, Oklahoma. And he
took me down to the, well, the first afternoon I got
in there, we immediately went down to this cooler
for the Quartermaster Corps he took me in the
cooler there and wanted me to tell him which of
these is a steer carcass and which is a heifer
carcass and I had no idea. I couldn't even tell male
from a female carcass and he was just furious. I
mean he was rabid. Colonel Wiseman, They sent him a
greenhorn like that. You couldn't tell a male from
a female. I knew nothing about looking for the
pizzle eye to distinguish. This was where the
penis muscle, the retractor muscle of the penis
attached on the pelvis. There was no distinction
between male and female carcass. No one told me
anything about that. Did we have that in school
Charlie? Did I miss that? No, no.
But anyway, I was at Fort Sill for about six months,
I guess, and then they transferred me to Fort Sam in
San Antonio. And I was doing most of the meat
inspection work. Well, at Fort Sill, I also was
involved in the small animal clinic that rendered
veterinary services to military personnel in the
Lofton area. That provided me really my first
exposure to small animal medicine. And it was very
interesting. I found it really intriguing. We had
a nice clinic set up there. And then when I went to
Fort Sam, we had a real nice veterinary clinic
there where we treated both large and small
animals. It had an awful lot of horses. at Fort Sam.
And one of my most interesting experiences there
involved
Colonel Wainwright, Skinny Wainwright, the
Death March. He was there at the Fourth Army
headquarters in San Antonio, and he had about four
of his jumping horses that he kept on the post
there. Of course, we saw about their health needs
at the veterinary clinic. And they called us one
morning about his favorite jumping horse, Once
Again was his name, having colic. And I went out and
encountered the sergeant that was presenting him
with his colic. Colonel Wyatt, who was commanding
officer of 4th Army Headquarters at the time, and
was head of the post hospital, veterinary
hospital, he came out and took over Mr. Kenny
Wainwright's horse. He thought that most colling
cases are rather simple to treat, and some of them
even self-resolving, but boy, if they're not,
you've got really trouble on your hands. Well,
fortunately for me, Colonel White took over. And
needless to say, the bottom line, General
Wainwright's horse once again became never more.
Oh, boy. I'm so glad for you.
So that was another close call you had there.
Somebody's looking over me, I guess. Okay, then
how did you, excuse me, go ahead. Well, I guess
while I was at Fort Sam, I came in, well, I attended
the local veterinary meetings, which
enabled me to see a real transition in organized
veterinary medicine, I guess. Of course, we'd
just been through the war years. I'd go to the San
Antonio or Bexar County Veterinary Association
meeting, and there wouldn't be maybe five or six
veterinarians there.
Looking around San Antonio, it looked attractive
to my wife and I, and I was scouting it out as a
potential site to practice after getting out of
the service. I actually located a boarding kennel
that they had for sale, a real nice facility, and I
saw this as having potential to be converted into a
veterinary clinic and hospitalizing facilities
with the warrants and cages and runs that they have
there. But we had our first child born there. The
baby was 13 days old. My wife died from a spinal
injection. It was kind of a real fiasco in the
medical profession, I guess. It was kind of an
enlightening thing that you could encounter
mistakes and mishaps in the medical field. I may be
a little prouder of the veterinary profession,
but individuals are all going to make mistakes in
regards to what they're training in the field that
they're in. But as a result of that, my mother was
just real anxious to raise my baby, so she came up
and took my baby home to Westwood, to Ed Couch,
actually. And I had about another six months to do,
in the service before I was discharged. And so when
I was discharged, I went back to the Valley and
started to practice in Washington,
Texas. So that's how I wound up back at home doing
practice. I'd always heard in school that it's not
wise to go back to your hometown and practice with
your friends or the factory service. You'd always
be little Elmo and lack the respect that you might
have if you were in the new community and starting
over fresh and all that. But I didn't find that to be
true. I found my friends being very receptive to me
as a veterinarian. And I don't think any of them
expected free service or anything of that nature.
I think I might have been somewhat of a
humanitarian. I never charged exorbitant fees. I
think my fees were always very reasonable, I
guess. I kind of operated on the philosophy of get
them for a dollar many times instead of ten dollars
once or something. I did practice at a reasonable
fee. One thing that might have influenced that,
there was a practitioner at Westaco that, while I
was growing up, Much better businessman than I
was, I guess. He got really exorbitant fees for a
lot of his services, but really didn't render a
whole lot of service. And this made the climate
there very good for me as a new veterinarian in the
community. Just be on the job, render good
service, and collect reasonable fees. I know I've
raised this question several times in some other
conversations about how do you decide what kind of
feed or to charge, and there's no good answer, I
gather. Well, no, it depends a lot on the
clientele, where you are and what, of course, the
Rio Grande Valley has never been populated with a
lot of wealthy people or even well-to-do people.
It's kind of a poverty area. At the present time,
there's about 28% unemployment in the valley
area. And those people have pay-ups, and they need
veterinary services, so that has an influence on
what some of your charges might be. But I practice
some socialized veterinary medicine to an
extent. I charge more for people that I thought
could afford it. I'd look out in the parking lot and
see what they were riding around in. But I never had
anyone throw my hand at me.
So how long were you in practice now? 22 years. 22
years. OK, so both of you really had a long private
practice before you came into academia. I didn't
realize how many people change at 17 years. That's
interesting. I met those people that came here to
the faculty and others. In about 15, 17 years, you
do something. That's interesting. Now, how did
you make that transition? And then let's go back to
your practice days, Anthony. I don't know. I had, I
think, as good a mixed practice as it was in the
state of Texas, and I enjoyed it thoroughly. And
about three years before I came up here, I bought an
excellent piece of property just halfway between
West Dakota and Mercedes at the intersection of
the main highway up and down the valley and a road
that goes down to Mexico. and remodeled this
furniture showroom that had been vacant for
probably 12, 15 years. And I bought it worth the
price and remodeled it for a mixed practice at
facilities for large and small animals, both all
under one roof. And I had, I think, an unusual large
animal practice. Probably 75% of my large animal
practice was made up of registered Charolais
cattle. And during the years that I was in practice
there, value escalated to the point that I think it
was ridiculous that some of the prices they were
getting for it. I had some terrible $50,000 cows in
my practice. And I don't mean that's the value they
placed on them or hadn't insured for them. That's
what they paid for them. It might have been a matter
of, well, you buy my two $50,000 cows this year, and
I'll buy your $100,000 bull next year, or
something like that. I don't know whether that
went on or not, but there was quite a bit of movement
between herds of valuable animals like that. And
I had about 10 stalls for large animals, and most of
these stalls were kept full all the time first
calf, charlotte heifers, or cows that had
dystopia problems a year before, and they brought
them in for us to calve out. So your income is coming
from large animals, hybrid stock practice? Well,
for about two years, the last two years of my
practice, for the first time ever, I guess, my
large animal practice money-wise, was about 60
percent of my practice in small ammo and 40
percent. Whereas throughout the 22 years I was
there, probably my practice was about 60 percent
small and 44 percent large. That really was a good
mixed practice then, okay. Because of the
interest in Charolais cattle and one of the
original importers of the Charolais breed, Fred
Turner, headquarters was just about five miles
south of my office, right near the rear ground. And
he really populated the whole valley with
Charolais cats. So I had a lot of breeders that made
excellent clients because they were willing to
spend money for diagnostics on the individual
animal and money for treatment of the individual
animal, not just a herd health type practice. And I
enjoyed that aspect of it. I liked it.
responsibility for the individual animal but i
had a i'd hired a an old bachelor friend of mine in
fact he was a friend of my parents before i was even
born or before they were even married that
operated dairy for many years down there then he
sold his dairy out and retired from daring and i
hired him to live in an apartment that i had right in
the center of my clinic building We put a window in
one wall that looked out over the stalls where we
kept these cows for freshening.
He was very knowledgeable about cattle and about
birthing calves and that sort of thing. It was his
responsibility, just the night work. He slept in
the daytime and ran the clinic at night, you might
say. He would call one of us. I had a partner at the
time, Dr. Larry Doosan. And he'd call us. We'd
alternate night duty. Is he still around? Yes,
he's still around. I feel like I've almost met him.
His name is down there. He's on the board of
examiners. His name has come up where I met him one
or the other. I can't remember. But I found this to
be a rather burdening responsibility to have
responsibility to these people. valuable cows.
Half a million bucks in your backyard. We did a
whole lot of C-sections. Cows are just like women.
They prefer to deliver at 2 or 3 o'clock in the
morning instead of 2 or 3 o'clock in the afternoon.
Is that right, Charlie? It just seems that's a
night event for cattle. And I don't know whether
it's the pressures of the practice or what, but I
got to the point that I couldn't get up in the middle
of the night and go out and make a call and go back and
go to sleep. I was awake and I was awake for the rest
of the night. You were getting in a stressful
situation. I don't know. My wife probably
detected the pressures that I was under. Really,
she wasn't happy in the Valley either. She wanted
to make a move. I was willing to kind of make a career
change or at least try it. And I first mentioned
this to Dr. Al Price at the Fort Worth meeting, that
I was contemplating a career change. I thought
more of regulatory work than I did of academia. At
the time, I thought I'd been out of school too long
to get back into academics. It just hadn't entered
my mind. But I guess Al mentioned to Bill Romaine on
some occasion that I was thinking doing something
besides continuing practice. Bill Romaine came
to the valley in about March, I think, of 71. He and
Ken Knauer came down there for a golfing foray, and
Bill gave us a program with large animals and Ken
Knauer on small animals. It happened to be Ken's
first seminar presentation. I think he'd been on
faculty here about three years, but it was his
first presentation to a group of veterinarians.
And Bill mentioned to me on that occasion that Al
had said something to him about how he was going to
make a career change. He asked me about coming up
here and if I'd be interested. And I said, well, I
haven't thought about it, but yes, I'd be
interested. I thought, oh, that sounds much
better than regulatory work.
More prestigious, to say the least. He said he
didn't have a position at the time, but he'd be
interested in talking with me if the position came
up. So I kind of marked it off. There was no further
talk. About another six weeks later, Nick
Callaham called and said they had a position up
here. I wanted to know if I wanted to come up and talk
about it. He said, we're going to have to have this
thing filled pretty quickly. He said, you need to
get up here pretty soon. Well, I think I came up
about a week later, something like that. Oh, is
that right? And then the position was not in large
animals. They still didn't have a position in
large animals. I wound up talking with Ned Elliott
and meeting the small animal faculty and getting a
tour of their facilities. I actually was offered a
position. I didn't even ask at that time what it
paid or what's going to be my grant. Is that right?
Uh-huh. So I begged a few days to make my decision to
go back and make arrangements with my partner and
discuss it with my wife and decided to make the
change. I thought it was probably a time for six
months or a year, but I had a practice that I was
thoroughly enjoying those aspects of it. Yeah,
you used a little rest and recuperation. Right.
Yeah. But I thought I'd come back for a little
retraining, kind of a sabbatical from practice or
something. But it turned out to be a permanent
position, and one that the transition that
frankly wasn't easy to make. It took me about two
years to adjust to the academic environment. I
don't know. They don't... I want to ask you both
about that, too. Yeah. Well, they... I was kind of
on my own, it looked like. I wasn't given any
specific responsibilities, classes to teach or,
well, for four months. You were just here. I
graduated at that time in September. Is that
right, Charles? Pardon? Graduating at that time
in September or August. August, I believe. Huh? I
believe it was August. And I came here June 1st.